covenants.md, before:

## Covenant Preface

> Be aware that regardless of Blizzard signalling otherwise, your capacity to perform appropriately in certain parts of the game will be significantly different depending on your Covenant. This means it's important that you choose the correct Covenant for the game context you are primarily focusing on.

Looking for Soulbind information? [Click here.](soulbinds.md)


## Covenant Signature Abilities

None of the Covenant signature abilities currently offer a particular synergy with Discipline abilities. Considering this, always defer to popular wisdom when it comes to picks that may counter a specific type of content.

### [Night Fae] Soulshape

> [Soulshape](https://shadowlands.wowhead.com/spell=310143/soulshape)

Soulshape provides an instant blink and sustained movement that can reset knockbacks, this can be particularly valuable on a fight such as Mythic Sire Denathrius, or even potentially the upcoming Ner'zhul encounter. Note that the the Goblin racial, [Rocket Jump](https://www.wowhead.com/spell=69070/rocket-jump) significantly devalues movement resets as you can typically get away with one every minute and a half or so.

### [Kyrian] Summon Steward

> [Summon Steward](https://shadowlands.wowhead.com/spell=324739)

Summon Steward will give you [Phial of Serenity](https://shadowlands.wowhead.com/item=177278/phial-of-serenity), which does not share a cooldown with Health Potions or Healthstones, meaning that you can use it as another personal each pull at worst. With the changes to certain mitigation mechanics there could be extremely high value in this as an extra bit of survivability - as Discipline doesn't have the best personals in the game.

In the best case scenario, you can combine it with some of the more interesting Soulbind effects such as [Ascendant Phial](https://shadowlands.wowhead.com/spell=329776/ascendant-phial) in order to skip mechanics that would otherwise incapacitate or take you out of a fight for a while. Note that this will probably not be exceptional in Sanctum of Domination as Blizzard have historically taken special care to flag important mechanics to ignore this, [see here](https://www.wowhead.com/news=318905.3/dwarf-stoneform-and-kyrian-phial-no-longer-removes-some-castle-nathria-bleeds).

### [Venthyr] Door of Shadows

> [Door of Shadows](https://shadowlands.wowhead.com/spell=300728/door-of-shadows)

Door of Shadows is a teleport that has a cast time, which reduces how effective it can be in a typical fight. Consider that even with base movement speed, you can move a large portion of the teleport max distance just by pressing `W` instead of casting. This relegates the spell to being used as a planned cast for specific movement requirements, a good example would be on Kel'Thuzad in Sanctum of Domination by timing the teleport to a safe zone in a Blizzard cast.

[Watch the Shoes](https://shadowlands.wowhead.com/spell=336140/watch-the-shoes), a soulbind passive provided by Theotar, could be an interesting way to allow Discipline to work around certain boss mechanics.

### [Necrolord] Fleshcraft

> [Fleshcraft](https://shadowlands.wowhead.com/spell=324631/fleshcraft)

Fleshcraft is a variable strength EHP boost with various potential benefits based on [conduit choice](https://shadowlands.wowhead.com/spell=323074/volatile-solvent) and the presence of adds in a fight. Baseline it can be quite difficult to get good value out of Fleshcraft as Discipline is a ramping spec, meaning the globals before a particularly tough damage event will typically be taken by casts preparing the raid for it.

## Priest Covenant Abilities

All of the damaging Covenant abilities will feed into Atonement. Where Covenant abilities deal area-of-effect damage, they will only cause Atonement healing for one of the targets hit. This has implications for abilities such as Ascended Nova, Ascended Eruption, and Unholy Nova -- despite the pressure to hit more targets to deal more damage, doing so is typically a bad idea as it will reduce your Atonement or Spirit Shell healing from them.

As of the time of writing, the order suggested here is roughly how you should be considering them for raiding.

### [Venthyr] Mindgames

> [Mindgames](https://shadowlands.wowhead.com/spell=323673/mindgames)

Coming out of the first tier, Mindgames has proven to be the best choice for Discipline; not only does it facilitate getting more value out of your expensive ramps - but it also allows you to participate in other game modes such as PVP to accelerate gearing at the tier start. 

The absorption component of Mindgames is also occasionally very good, it can provide an extremely strong bonus to the damage of the spell by converting the target's healing into damage. This damage **does** follow through to Atonement, meaning that Mindgames on certain encounters may be roughly twice as strong. Additionally, the damage to healing component of the effect also prevents damage from being done in the first place, meaning the value there is double what is listed in the tooltip. On some fights this can push Mindgames to be a spell that does 20% of more of your total output for free, such as Sire Denathrius or Hungering Destroyer, and while this is inline with a lot of the other healing covenants in the game -- no other Priest covenant yet has shown similar results for Discipline.

### [Kyrian] Boon of the Ascended

> [Boon of the Ascended](https://shadowlands.wowhead.com/spell=325013/boon-of-the-ascended)
>
> [Ascended Blast](https://shadowlands.wowhead.com/spell=325315/ascended-blast)
>
> [Ascended Nova](https://shadowlands.wowhead.com/spell=325020/ascended-nova)
>
> [Ascended Eruption](https://shadowlands.wowhead.com/spell=325326/ascended-eruption)

Boon of the Ascended is a large CD that enables a moderate amount of damage for 10 seconds, some of which is AoE. This represents a large increase to Discipline's output ceiling and as such is valuable for M+. This Covenant should only be a consideration for players pushing M+ beyond even the weekly level required to get rewards, and even then 

### [Necrolord] Unholy Nova

> [Unholy Nova](https://shadowlands.wowhead.com/spell=324724/unholy-nova)

> This ability requires significant tuning, or more likely another pass at design in order for it to be competitive.

Unholy Nova costs too much mana, and has extremely poor interactions with Atonement due to the low damage over time component. When you hit many enemies with it, there is no discernable benefit for Discipline as well - meaning the AoE damage component only serves to reduce the effectiveness of this ability due to the use of sqrt scaling. 

### [Night Fae] Fae Guardians

> [Fae Guardians](https://shadowlands.wowhead.com/spell=327661/fae-guardians)

> This ability requires significant tuning, or more likely another pass at design in order for it to be competitive.

Fae Guardians has a large amout of the value in the mana return, which is not great when the baseline Discipline spells heal for so little through Atonement, which is Discipline's only method of efficiently converting extraneous mana into output. The cooldown reduction should not be considered, as it will reduce the cooldown of Spirit Shell or Rapture, which in turn become less valuable as they're offset from your cooldowns such as Shadowfiend or Mindbender.

Commit message:

Remove trinkets page, flag outdated content

covenants.md, after:

> Currently outdated, updates for 9.1 are in the works so check back later.
## Covenant Preface

> Be aware that regardless of Blizzard signalling otherwise, your capacity to perform appropriately in certain parts of the game will be significantly different depending on your Covenant. This means it's important that you choose the correct Covenant for the game context you are primarily focusing on.

Looking for Soulbind information? [Click here.](soulbinds.md)


## Covenant Signature Abilities

None of the Covenant signature abilities currently offer a particular synergy with Discipline abilities. Considering this, always defer to popular wisdom when it comes to picks that may counter a specific type of content.

### [Night Fae] Soulshape

> [Soulshape](https://shadowlands.wowhead.com/spell=310143/soulshape)

Soulshape provides an instant blink and sustained movement that can reset knockbacks, this can be particularly valuable on a fight such as Mythic Sire Denathrius, or even potentially the upcoming Ner'zhul encounter. Note that the the Goblin racial, [Rocket Jump](https://www.wowhead.com/spell=69070/rocket-jump) significantly devalues movement resets as you can typically get away with one every minute and a half or so.

### [Kyrian] Summon Steward

> [Summon Steward](https://shadowlands.wowhead.com/spell=324739)

Summon Steward will give you [Phial of Serenity](https://shadowlands.wowhead.com/item=177278/phial-of-serenity), which does not share a cooldown with Health Potions or Healthstones, meaning that you can use it as another personal each pull at worst. With the changes to certain mitigation mechanics there could be extremely high value in this as an extra bit of survivability - as Discipline doesn't have the best personals in the game.

In the best case scenario, you can combine it with some of the more interesting Soulbind effects such as [Ascendant Phial](https://shadowlands.wowhead.com/spell=329776/ascendant-phial) in order to skip mechanics that would otherwise incapacitate or take you out of a fight for a while. Note that this will probably not be exceptional in Sanctum of Domination as Blizzard have historically taken special care to flag important mechanics to ignore this, [see here](https://www.wowhead.com/news=318905.3/dwarf-stoneform-and-kyrian-phial-no-longer-removes-some-castle-nathria-bleeds).

### [Venthyr] Door of Shadows

> [Door of Shadows](https://shadowlands.wowhead.com/spell=300728/door-of-shadows)

Door of Shadows is a teleport that has a cast time, which reduces how effective it can be in a typical fight. Consider that even with base movement speed, you can move a large portion of the teleport max distance just by pressing `W` instead of casting. This relegates the spell to being used as a planned cast for specific movement requirements, a good example would be on Kel'Thuzad in Sanctum of Domination by timing the teleport to a safe zone in a Blizzard cast.

[Watch the Shoes](https://shadowlands.wowhead.com/spell=336140/watch-the-shoes), a soulbind passive provided by Theotar, could be an interesting way to allow Discipline to work around certain boss mechanics.

### [Necrolord] Fleshcraft

> [Fleshcraft](https://shadowlands.wowhead.com/spell=324631/fleshcraft)

Fleshcraft is a variable strength EHP boost with various potential benefits based on [conduit choice](https://shadowlands.wowhead.com/spell=323074/volatile-solvent) and the presence of adds in a fight. Baseline it can be quite difficult to get good value out of Fleshcraft as Discipline is a ramping spec, meaning the globals before a particularly tough damage event will typically be taken by casts preparing the raid for it.

## Priest Covenant Abilities

All of the damaging Covenant abilities will feed into Atonement. Where Covenant abilities deal area-of-effect damage, they will only cause Atonement healing for one of the targets hit. This has implications for abilities such as Ascended Nova, Ascended Eruption, and Unholy Nova -- despite the pressure to hit more targets to deal more damage, doing so is typically a bad idea as it will reduce your Atonement or Spirit Shell healing from them.

As of the time of writing, the order suggested here is roughly how you should be considering them for raiding.

### [Venthyr] Mindgames

> [Mindgames](https://shadowlands.wowhead.com/spell=323673/mindgames)

Coming out of the first tier, Mindgames has proven to be the best choice for Discipline; not only does it facilitate getting more value out of your expensive ramps - but it also allows you to participate in other game modes such as PVP to accelerate gearing at the tier start. 

The absorption component of Mindgames is also occasionally very good, it can provide an extremely strong bonus to the damage of the spell by converting the target's healing into damage. This damage **does** follow through to Atonement, meaning that Mindgames on certain encounters may be roughly twice as strong. Additionally, the damage to healing component of the effect also prevents damage from being done in the first place, meaning the value there is double what is listed in the tooltip. On some fights this can push Mindgames to be a spell that does 20% of more of your total output for free, such as Sire Denathrius or Hungering Destroyer, and while this is inline with a lot of the other healing covenants in the game -- no other Priest covenant yet has shown similar results for Discipline.

### [Kyrian] Boon of the Ascended

> [Boon of the Ascended](https://shadowlands.wowhead.com/spell=325013/boon-of-the-ascended)
>
> [Ascended Blast](https://shadowlands.wowhead.com/spell=325315/ascended-blast)
>
> [Ascended Nova](https://shadowlands.wowhead.com/spell=325020/ascended-nova)
>
> [Ascended Eruption](https://shadowlands.wowhead.com/spell=325326/ascended-eruption)

Boon of the Ascended is a large CD that enables a moderate amount of damage for 10 seconds, some of which is AoE. This represents a large increase to Discipline's output ceiling and as such is valuable for M+. This Covenant should only be a consideration for players pushing M+ beyond even the weekly level required to get rewards, and even then 

### [Necrolord] Unholy Nova

> [Unholy Nova](https://shadowlands.wowhead.com/spell=324724/unholy-nova)

> This ability requires significant tuning, or more likely another pass at design in order for it to be competitive.

Unholy Nova costs too much mana, and has extremely poor interactions with Atonement due to the low damage over time component. When you hit many enemies with it, there is no discernable benefit for Discipline as well - meaning the AoE damage component only serves to reduce the effectiveness of this ability due to the use of sqrt scaling. 

### [Night Fae] Fae Guardians

> [Fae Guardians](https://shadowlands.wowhead.com/spell=327661/fae-guardians)

> This ability requires significant tuning, or more likely another pass at design in order for it to be competitive.

Fae Guardians has a large amout of the value in the mana return, which is not great when the baseline Discipline spells heal for so little through Atonement, which is Discipline's only method of efficiently converting extraneous mana into output. The cooldown reduction should not be considered, as it will reduce the cooldown of Spirit Shell or Rapture, which in turn become less valuable as they're offset from your cooldowns such as Shadowfiend or Mindbender.
