soulbinds.md, before:

> Note this page has been written with a larger emphasis on raiding than other pages.

## Conduit Considerations
Generally speaking your conduit preference will look something like this:
* Exaltation
* Shining Radiance
* Shattered Perceptions

Shining Radiance and Shattered Perceptions is a toss up largely depending on your typical Atonement count and overhealing on the fight, Shining Radiance has a 20% lead however and if you can make full use of it - do so. Exaltation is significantly ahead (by up to 75%) if you're using Spirit Shell. 

## Progression Soulbinds
https://www.wowhead.com/soulbind-calc/venthyr/theotar-the-mad-duke/priest/ApYAEQUnfgQhBSczBA

Theotar allows you to pick up an early Endurance conduit, which could be incredibly helpful on very early progression content. This comes at the cost of a slightly more RNG initial tree offering however.

https://www.wowhead.com/soulbind-calc/venthyr/nadjia-the-mistblade/priest/ApagAQUnKwQRBSd-BCEVJzME

Nadjia has an interesting mechanic as her initial tree offering, which may be compelling as a M+ option for players.

## Ideal Soulbind
https://www.wowhead.com/soulbind-calc/venthyr/general-draven/priest/ApZlAQUnKwQSBSdyBBUnfgQiBSb-BBUnMwQ

Draven is the most interesting Soulbind for typical progression content, he allows for a utility switch in his second tier for dispel fights, and has the [Hold Your Ground](https://www.wowhead.com/spell=332754/hold-your-ground) ability which will synergise excellently with Spirit Shell.

Commit message:

Remove trinkets page, flag outdated content

soulbinds.md, after:

> Currently outdated, updates for 9.1 are in the works so check back later.

## Conduit Considerations
Generally speaking your conduit preference will look something like this:
* Exaltation
* Shining Radiance
* Shattered Perceptions

Shining Radiance and Shattered Perceptions is a toss up largely depending on your typical Atonement count and overhealing on the fight, Shining Radiance has a 20% lead however and if you can make full use of it - do so. Exaltation is significantly ahead (by up to 75%) if you're using Spirit Shell. 

## Progression Soulbinds
https://www.wowhead.com/soulbind-calc/venthyr/theotar-the-mad-duke/priest/ApYAEQUnfgQhBSczBA

Theotar allows you to pick up an early Endurance conduit, which could be incredibly helpful on very early progression content. This comes at the cost of a slightly more RNG initial tree offering however.

https://www.wowhead.com/soulbind-calc/venthyr/nadjia-the-mistblade/priest/ApagAQUnKwQRBSd-BCEVJzME

Nadjia has an interesting mechanic as her initial tree offering, which may be compelling as a M+ option for players.

## Ideal Soulbind
https://www.wowhead.com/soulbind-calc/venthyr/general-draven/priest/ApZlAQUnKwQSBSdyBBUnfgQiBSb-BBUnMwQ

Draven is the most interesting Soulbind for typical progression content, he allows for a utility switch in his second tier for dispel fights, and has the [Hold Your Ground](https://www.wowhead.com/spell=332754/hold-your-ground) ability which will synergise excellently with Spirit Shell.
